---
layout: post
title:  "Porblem of the Week - Sep. 28, 2023 [Middle]"
date:   2023-09-28 00:12:00 -0700
tags: potw algebra
comments: "true"
inlinecomments: "true"
mathjax: "true"
publish_hint: "false"
publish_solution: "false"
publish_readmore: "false"
---
### Problem
Let $a$ and $b$ be the roots of the equation

$$
x^2 − mx + 2 = 0
$$

Suppose that $a + \dfrac{1}{b}$ and $b + \dfrac{1}{a}$ are the roots of the equation

$$
x^2 − px + q = 0
$$

What is $q$?
<!--more-->

### Hint
{% if page.publish_hint == "true" or jekyll.environment == "preview" %}

- Typically, it is not feasible to resolve this problem by solving the first equation and then substituting the solutions into the second equation. It tends to become overly intricate, occasionally involving irrational or complex numbers. Vieta's formula provides an effective approach to circumvent this issue.
- Algebraic identities play a critical role in this type of problems.

{% else %}
- to be published on 9/30/23.
{% endif %}

### Solution 
{% if page.publish_solution == "true" or jekyll.environment == "preview" %}

**Solution 1:** 

Applying the Vieta's formula to the second equation, we have 

$$
\begin{aligned}
q &= (a + \frac{1}{b}) \cdot (b + \frac{1}{a}) \\
  &= ab + \frac{a}{b} + \frac{b}{a} + \frac{1}{ab} \\
  &= ab + \frac{1}{ab} + \frac{a^2+b^2}{ab}
\end{aligned}
$$

Applying the Vieta's formula to the first equation, we have $ab = 2$ and $a+b=m$

Next, let's find $a^2+b^2$

$$
\begin{aligned}
 &a^2+b^2 \\
=&(a+b)^2 - 2ab \\
=&m^2 - 4
\end{aligned}
$$

Hence, 

$$
\begin{aligned}
 &q \\
=&ab + \frac{1}{ab} + \frac{a^2+b^2}{ab} \\
=&2 + \frac{1}{2} + \frac{m^2-4}{2} \\
=&\frac{m^2+1}{2}
\end{aligned}
$$

{% else %}
- to be published on 10/1/23.
{% endif %}

### Exercise Problem
- Find the sum of all solutions for $x$:

$$
\begin{cases}
xy = 1 \\
x + y = 3
\end{cases}
$$

- Both roots of the quadratic equation $$x^2 − 63x + k = 0$$ are prime numbers. What is the number of possible values of $k$?

### Read More
{% if page.publish_readmore == "true" or jekyll.environment == "preview" %}
- [Quadratic Equation](https://www.mathsisfun.com/algebra/quadratic-equation.html){:target="_blank"}
- [Vieta's Formula](https://brilliant.org/wiki/vietas-formula/){:target="_blank"}
- [Algebraic Identities](https://www.cuemath.com/algebra/algebraic-identities/){:target="_blank"}

{% else %}
- to be published on 9/30/23.
{% endif %}
