---
layout: post
title:  "Porblem of the Week - Aug. 31, 2023 [Middle]"
date:   2023-08-31 00:16:00 -0700
categories: math algebra
tags: potw algebra
comments: "true"
inlinecomments: "true"
mathjax: "true"
---
### Problem
Solve the following system of equations:

$$
\begin{cases}
  3x^2 − 8xy + 4y^2 = 28 \\
  x^2 − 3xy + 2y^2 = 56
\end{cases}
$$

### Hint
- To solve an equation system, it's essential to decrease the number of variables, and the primary techniques taught in school for achieving this are elimination and substitution. 
- However, directly applying these two techniques to this equation system is not practical. We cannot identify a pair of coefficients in two equations to eliminate either x or y, and expressing x in terms of y is excessively intricate to substitute into the other equation. 
- Upon close examination of the equation system, we can observe that the left side of both equations consists of homogeneous functions. Instead of eliminating x or y, we have the option to eliminate the constant term and derive a homogeneous equation involving x and y. This is the crucial factor for solving this equation system. 
- Proficiency in Simon's Favorite Factoring Trick (SFFT) can also help in solving this problem.

### Solution 
- Solution 1: Factoring the left sides of both equations and cancelling the common factor.

  Here is a video that elucidates the limitations of the elimination and substitution methods in this particular problem and provides an alternative approach for solving it.
  <div class='embed-container'>
  <iframe title="YouTube video player" width="640" height="390" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/O9cXRSvLn_0" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
  </div>

- Solution 2: Eliminating the constant.

  By doubling the first equation and subtracting the second equation, we can remove the constant and obtain
  $$5x^2-13xy+6y^2=0$$

  With Simon's Favorite Factoring Trick (SFFT), we can get
  $$(5x-3y)(x-2y)=0$$
  Therefore, $x=2y$ or $x=\frac{3}{5}y$.

  When substituting $x=2y$ into the original equation, it leads to a contradiction, indicating that we should drop it. 
  
  When substituting $x=\frac{3}{5}y$ into the initial equation, we obtain two possible solutions.
$$
\begin{cases}
  x = 6 \\
  y = 10
\end{cases} and 
\begin{cases}
  x = -6 \\
  y = -10
\end{cases}
$$

  
### Exercise Problem
- Solve the system of equations:

$$
\begin{cases}
  x^2 + xy = 20 \\
  y^2 + xy = 30
\end{cases}
$$

### Read More
- [System of Equations](https://artofproblemsolving.com/wiki/index.php/System_of_equations#Clever_Substitution) has a thorough explanation of both elimination and substitution methods, and even introducing some advanced techniques associated with them.
- [Simon's Favorite Factoring Trick](https://artofproblemsolving.com/wiki/index.php/Simon%27s_Favorite_Factoring_Trick)
- Solving a Quadratic equation by [Factoring](https://artofproblemsolving.com/wiki/index.php/Quadratic_equation) or [Quadratic Formula](https://artofproblemsolving.com/wiki/index.php/Quadratic_Formula).