---
layout: post
title:  "Porblem of the Week - Oct. 19, 2023 [Middle]"
date:   2023-10-19 00:12:00 -0700
tags: potw numbertheory
comments: "true"
inlinecomments: "true"
mathjax: "true"
publish_hint: "false"
publish_solution: "false"
publish_readmore: "false"
---
### Problem

An integer $N$ is selected at random in the range $1 \leq N \leq 2020$. What is the probability that the remainder when $N^{16}$ is divided by $5$ is $1$?

<!--more-->

### Hint
{% if page.publish_hint == "true" or jekyll.environment == "preview" %}

- If you're familiar with Fermat's Little Theorem, it will become apparent.
- Alternatively, attempt to examine the numbers 1, 2, 3, and so on individually, anticipating the discovery of a pattern. 
- Typically, a pattern is always there. The challenge lies in how many individual numbers you must examine before uncovering that pattern.
- Fortunately, the effort required to identify a pattern in the problem is affordable.

{% else %}
- to be published on 10/21/23.
{% endif %}

### Solution 
{% if page.publish_solution == "true" or jekyll.environment == "preview" %}

**Solution 1:** 

$5$ is a prime number, which implies that any number $x$ that is not a multiple of $5$ is coprime with $5$. By applying Fermat's Little Theorem, we have $x^4 \equiv 1 \pmod 5$. Consequently, we can conclude that $x^{16} \equiv 1 \pmod 5$.

Obviously, any number $y$ that is a multiple of $5$, has $y^{16} \equiv 0 \pmod 5$. 

So $4$ out of $5$ consecutive numbers leave a remainder of $1$ when divided by $5$. Given that $2020$ is a multiple of $5$, the probability is $80\%$.

**Solution 2:** 

Let's examine the individual numbers starting from 1, 2, 3, and so on.

$$
1^{16} \equiv 1 \pmod 5 \\
2^{16} \equiv 1 \pmod 5 \\
3^{16} \equiv 1 \pmod 5 \\
4^{16} \equiv 1 \pmod 5 \\
5^{16} \equiv 0 \pmod 5 \\
6^{16} \equiv 1 \pmod 5 \\
7^{16} \equiv 1 \pmod 5 \\
8^{16} \equiv 1 \pmod 5 \\
9^{16} \equiv 1 \pmod 5 \\
10^{16} \equiv 0 \pmod 5
$$

Up to this point, the pattern is clear: $4$ out of $5$ consecutive numbers leave a remainder of $1$ when divided by $5$. Given that $2020$ is a multiple of $5$, the probability is $80\%$.

{% else %}
- to be published on 10/22/23.
{% endif %}

### Exercise Problem
- Find $2^{20} + 3^{30} + 4^{40} + 5^{50} + 6^{60}$ mod $7$.

### Read More
{% if page.publish_readmore == "true" or jekyll.environment == "preview" %}

- [Fermat's Little Theorem](https://artofproblemsolving.com/wiki/index.php/Fermat%27s_Little_Theorem#Problems){:target="_blank"}

{% else %}
- to be published on 10/21/23.
{% endif %}
