---
layout: slide
title: "MathCounts 2020 Chapter Countdown"
date: 2023-12-22
categories: presentation
theme: league
transition: slide
---
<section data-markdown>
## MathCounts 2020 Chapter Countdown
</section>

<section data-markdown>
The Sharks have a win-loss record of $36-14$. What percent of the games played
have the Sharks won?

Notes: 72
</section>

<section data-markdown>
How many minutes are there in half of a day?

Notes: 720
</section>

<section data-markdown>
A certain gameboard consists of an $n \times n$ array of squares. Vijay places a token on every square that does not border an edge of the board. If Vijay uses exactly $169$ tokens, what is the value of $n$?

Notes: 15
</section>

<section data-markdown>
What is the greatest common factor of the first $100$ positive prime numbers?

Notes: 1
</section>

<section data-markdown>
This week, Rudy began saving his $5$ dollars weekly allowance to buy a new gaming system. How many weeks worth of allowance must Rudy save to buy a gaming system that costs $299$ dollars?

Notes: 60
</section>

<section data-markdown>
Triangle $ABC$ has perimeter $24$ $cm$ and area $20$ $cm^2$. Triangle $DEF$ is similar to triangle $ABC$ and has area $45$ $cm^2$. What is the perimeter of triangle $DEF$, in centimeters?

Notes: 36
</section>

<section data-markdown>
If Colin can wrap a gift in $18$ seconds, how many minutes will it take him to wrap $100$ gifts?

Notes: 30
</section>

<section data-markdown>
What number is halfway between $\frac{3}{7}$ and $\frac{6}{7}$? Express your answer as a common fraction.

Notes: $\frac{9}{14}$
</section>

<section data-markdown>
For what value of $k$ does the straight line passing through the points $(4k + 1, 3k + 2)$ and $(3k + 2, 2k + 1)$ have slope $2$?

Notes: 3
</section>

<section data-markdown>
George has five ribbons, each $4$ feet $8$ inches in length. What is the combined length of George’s ribbons? Express your answer to the nearest foot.

Notes: 23
</section>

<section data-markdown>
What is the value of the expression $(1 − 8) ÷ (2 − 7) + (3 − 6) ÷ (4 − 5)$? Express your answer as a decimal to the nearest tenth.

Notes: 4.4
</section>

<section data-markdown>
Carl received a text notifying him that the release date for “$102$ Dachshunds” would be $102$   days from the notification date. If the movie release day will be a Saturday, on what day of the week did Carl receive the text?

Notes: Tuesday
</section>

<section data-markdown>
A jar contains $8$ red, $10$ green, $36$ yellow and some blue marbles. If the ratio of green to blue marbles is $5:12$, how many blue marbles are in the jar?

Notes: 24
</section>

<section data-markdown>
What is the area of the triangle with side lengths $5$, $5$ and $6$, in square units?

Notes: 12
</section>

<section data-markdown>
If $a ♥ b = a^2− b$, what is the value of $12 ♥ 12$?

Notes: 132
</section>

<section data-markdown>
A math club for seventh and eighth graders starts with $14$ seventh graders and $8$ eighth graders. Each week, $3$ new seventh graders and $4$ new eighth graders join the club. What will be the total number of members when the club has an equal number of seventh graders and eighth graders?

Notes: 64
</section>

<section data-markdown>
What is the surface area, in square centimeters, of a cube with volume $1000$ $cm^3$

Notes: 600
</section>

<section data-markdown>
What is the product of the least common multiple and the greatest common factor of $10$ and $15$?

Notes: 150
</section>

<section data-markdown>
The product of three distinct prime numbers is $130$. What is the greatest of the three prime numbers?

Notes: 13
</section>

<section data-markdown>
How many distinct Halloween costumes can be made by choosing one of three different capes, one of two different wigs and two of four different accessories?

Notes: 36
</section>

<section data-markdown>
Courtney has ten nickels, ten dimes and ten quarters. If she has no other coins, what is the total value of her coins, in dollars?

Notes: 4
</section>

<section data-markdown>
A fence that is $33$ feet long is held up by a number of posts. There must be a post at each end of the fence, and consecutive posts cannot be more than $6$ feet apart. What is the minimum number of posts needed to hold up this fence?

Notes: 7
</section>

<section data-markdown>
What is the value of the expression $1.2 × 1.2 + 1.2 ÷ 1.2 − 1.2$? Express your answer as a decimal to the nearest hundredth.

Notes: 1.24
</section>

<section data-markdown>
A three-digit positive integer is _pristine_ if all three of its digits are distinct prime numbers. How many three-digit positive integers are pristine?

Notes: 24
</section>

<section data-markdown>
What is the product of $42$ and $48$?

Notes: 2016
</section>

<section data-markdown>
A rectangle is twice as long as it is wide. If its perimeter is $18$ feet, what is its area, in square feet?

Notes: 18
</section>

<section data-markdown>
Tom can pay for phone service at a rate of $45$ dollars per month or $500$ dollars per year. How many dollars will Tom save by choosing the cheaper payment plan for one year of service?

Notes: 40
</section>

<section data-markdown>
Two brothers, Timmy and Jimmy, have heights totaling $12$ feet. If Timmy is $6$ inches taller than Jimmy, what is Timmy’s height in inches?

Notes: 75
</section>

<section data-markdown>
Nathan lost his marbles. He found $30$ of them, which was $\frac{1}{3}$ of the number that he started with. How many marbles did he have to begin with?

Notes: 90
</section>

<section data-markdown>
Through the first $81$ games of an $82-game$ basketball season, Michael averaged $29$ points per game. Assuming Michael has played in all $81$ games, how many points must he score in the final game to average $30$ points per game for the season?

Notes: 111
</section>

<section data-markdown>
What is the value of 150% of 50% of $100$?

Notes: 75
</section>

<section data-markdown>
If $2x = 15.6$, what is the value of $x$? Express your answer as a decimal to the nearest tenth.

Notes: 7.8
</section>

<section data-markdown>
Dana’s car averages $28$ miles per gallon of gas, and it currently contains $1$ gallon of gas. If Dana adds $10.00$ dollars worth of gas, sold for $2.50$ dollars per gallon, how many miles can he expect to drive before running out of gas?

Notes: 140
</section>

<section data-markdown>
What is the greatest common factor of $36$, $54$, $66$ and $17$?

Notes: 1
</section>

<section data-markdown>
Liam pays $60.00$ dollars for a sweater that is on sale for 25\% off its original price. How many dollars did the sweater originally cost?

Notes: 80
</section>

<section data-markdown>
If $x = 9$, what is the value of the expression $2x \cdot 5x$?

Notes: 810
</section>

<section data-markdown>
The points A and B are located on a number line with coordinates $−8$ and $32$, espectively. If the point P is located between A and B so that the ratio of AP to PB is $1:4$, what is the coordinate of point P?

Notes: 0
</section>

<section data-markdown>
What is the value of $((2 + 3) × 5) − (2 + 3 × 5)$?

Notes: 8
</section>

<section data-markdown>
Marcus can walk $15$ blocks in one hour. How many minutes does it take him to walk $50$ blocks?

Notes: 200
</section>

<section data-markdown>
What is $\frac{1}{3}$ of $2\frac{1}{3}$? Express your answer as a common fraction.

Notes: $\frac{7}{9}$
</section>

<section data-markdown>
Tina drove $140$ miles in $2\frac{1}{2}$hours. What was her average speed, in miles per hour?

Notes:
</section>

<section data-markdown>
Richard bakes a pie. He gives his mom half of the pie. He gives his dad a quarter of the pie. What percentage of the pie is left?

Notes:
</section>

<section data-markdown>
The product of two consecutive negative integers is $42$. What is their sum?

Notes:
</section>

<section data-markdown>
The perimeter of a rectangle is $20$ inches. If the length of the rectangle is $7$ inches, what is the area of the rectangle, in square inches?

Notes:
</section>

<section data-markdown>
What is the value of $\frac{\frac{1}{2} + \frac{1}{3} + \frac{1}{4}}{\frac{5}{2} + \frac{5}{3} + \frac{5}{4}}$? Express your answer as a common fraction.

Notes:
</section>

<section data-markdown>
Bobbie has $260$ photos that she would like to put into physical photo albums. Each album can hold up to 50 photos. What is the fewest number of albums Bobbie will need?

Notes:
</section>

<section data-markdown>
Two integers that add to $15$ differ by $3$. What is the product of the two integers?

Notes:
</section>

<section data-markdown>
If angle A is an acute angle, what is the absolute difference between the degree measures of the supplement of A and the complement of A, in degrees?

Notes:
</section>

<section data-markdown>
If a and b are positive integers such that $a^2 + b^2 = 197$, what is the value of $a + b$?

Notes:
</section>

<section data-markdown>
Right triangle ABC is similar to triangle XYZ. The legs of triangle ABC have lengths of 3 cm and 4 cm. The hypotenuse of triangle XYZ is 15 cm long. What is the area, in square centimeters, of triangle XYZ?

Notes:
</section>

<section data-markdown>
The lowest point in Death Valley is Badwater at 282 feet below sea level. The highest point in the surrounding mountains is Telescope Peak at 11,043 feet above sea level. How many feet higher is Telescope Peak than Badwater?

Notes:
</section>

<section data-markdown>
If a is a positive integer such that $a=\sqrt{(-16)\times(-16)\times(-16)\times(-16)}$, what is the value of $\sqrt{a}$?

Notes:
</section>

<section data-markdown>
A regular hexagon, with perimeter 30 inches, is divided into six congruent equilateral triangles as shown. What is the perimeter of the gray triangle, in inches?

Notes:
</section>

<section data-markdown>
If $a + b$ is twice $a − b$ and $ab ≠ 0$, what is the ratio of $b$ to $a$? Express your answer as a common fraction.

Notes:
</section>

<section data-markdown>
One-half of the students in Mr. Meyer’s class are boys, and one-third of the students in Ms. Sanchez’s class are boys. If both classes have the same number of students, what fraction of the two classes combined are boys? Express your answer as a common fraction.

Notes:
</section>

<section data-markdown>
The area of a certain triangle is numerically equal to five times the length of its base. What is the height of the triangle, in units?

Notes:
</section>

<section data-markdown>
What is the sum of all of the integers a that satisfy the equation $a = a^3$?

Notes:
</section>

<section data-markdown>
If the line $y = 2x − 6$ intersects the line $x = 10$ at the point $(10, b)$, what is the value of $b$?

Notes:
</section>

<section data-markdown>
It takes Ty 4 hours 30 minutes to read his favorite book, reading at a constant rate of 100 pages every 50 minutes. How many pages are in Ty’s favorite book?

Notes:
</section>

<section data-markdown>
Reuben had 15 ounces of fudge. He gave half of the fudge to his sister. How many ounces of fudge did he keep? Express your answer as a decimal to the nearest tenth.

Notes:
</section>

<section data-markdown>
If x is a number such that $2x + 5 = 9$, what is the value of the expression $(2x + 6)(2x + 7)$?

Notes:
</section>

<section data-markdown>
What is the least positive integer that is even and is a perfect square and is divisible by 3?

Notes:
</section>

<section data-markdown>
Last night $\frac{5}{8}$ of the students in the dorm looked at Facebook, $\frac{3}{8}$ looked at Twitter, and $\frac{1}{4}$ looked at both. What fraction of the students looked at neither? Express your answer as a common fraction.

Notes:
</section>

<section data-markdown>
If $5y = −60$, what is the value of $y$?

Notes:
</section>

<section data-markdown>
What is the greatest common factor of 78 and 90?

Notes:
</section>

<section data-markdown>
Clara buys a bunch of bananas at the grocery store. If the total is 2.54 dollars and she pays with a 5 dollar bill, how much change should she get back, to the nearest cent?

Notes:
</section>

<section data-markdown>
What is the value of $\frac{20^20}{10^19 + 10^19 + 10^19 + 10^19}$?

Notes:
</section>

<section data-markdown>
Jadon buys three large cartons of eggs. Each carton holds $1\frac{1}{2}$ dozen eggs. How many eggs does he buy in all?

Notes:
</section>

<section data-markdown>
What is the area, in square units, of a rectangle whose perimeter is 14 units and whose side lengths are prime numbers?

Notes:
</section>

<section data-markdown>
Brent flips three fair coins in succession. Given that the first coin lands heads, what is the probability that all his coins will land heads? Express your answer asa common fraction.

Notes:
</section>

<section data-markdown>
What is the value of the sum ${\frac{1}{3} + \frac{2}{3} + \frac{4}{3} + \frac{5}{3} + \frac{7}{3} + \frac{8}{3}}$?

Notes:
</section>

<section data-markdown>
Jin has scores of 80, 91 and 96 on his tests this term. What is the lowest score that he can get on the next test that will raise his average to at least 90?

Notes:
</section>

<section data-markdown>
If $\sqrt{x} + \sqrt{36} = \sqrt{64}$, what is the value of $x$?

Notes:
</section>

<section data-markdown>
What is the smallest perfect square divisible by at least three distinct prime numbers?

Notes:
</section>

<section data-markdown>
What is the smallest value of n with the property that $1 + 2 + 3 + ⋯ + n$ is a two-digit number whose digits are equal?

Notes:
</section>

<section data-markdown>
What is the greatest prime number less than 50 that can be written in the form 4n + 1, where n is a positive integer?

Notes:
</section>

<section data-markdown>
How many zeros appear at the end of the product of the first 2020 primes?

Notes:
</section>

<section data-markdown>
What is the units digit of $2020^0 + 2020^1 + 2020^2 + 2020^3 + ⋯ + 2020^2020$?

Notes:
</section>

<section data-markdown>
Paul paid for a sandwich with a 5 dollars bill and received three pennies, two dimes and one quarter in change. What was the cost of the sandwich, to the nearest cent?

Notes:
</section>

<section data-markdown>
That's the END.

Notes:
</section>
