---
layout: post
title:  "Porblem of the Week - Nov. 30, 2023 [Middle]"
date:   2023-11-30 00:12:00 -0700
tags: potw numbertheory
comments: "true"
inlinecomments: "true"
mathjax: "true"
publish_hint: "true"
publish_solution: "true"
publish_readmore: "true"
---
### Problem

Proof that $\sqrt{2}$ is irrational number.

<!--more-->

### Hint
{% if page.publish_hint == "true" or jekyll.environment == "preview" %}
- Try proof by contradiction.
- A number is a rational number if and only if it can be represented as a fraction $\dfrac{p}{q}$

{% else %}
- to be published.
{% endif %}

### Solution 
{% if page.publish_solution == "true" or jekyll.environment == "preview" %}
**Solution:** 

{% else %}
- to be published.
{% endif %}

### Exercise Problem
- Prove that $9a^3 + 3b^3 + c^3 = 0$ has only one solution in integers, $(0, 0, 0)$.
- Provided we have two irrational number $a$ and $b$, it is possible $a^b$ is a rational number?

### Read More
{% if page.publish_readmore == "true" or jekyll.environment == "preview" %}

- [Proof by Contradiction](https://tutors.com/lesson/proof-by-contradiction-definition-examples){:target="_blank"}

- Infinite Descent

  The method of infinite descent played a crucial role in the proof of Fermat's Last Theorem in the early age. Fermat developed the method of infinite descent and successfully proved that there are no integer solutions when $n=4$. Euler later used a similar approach to handle the case when $n=3$. Subsequently, mathematicians like Legendre, Dirichlet, Lamé, Lebesgue, and others employed the method of infinite descent to prove cases for special exponents such as $5$ and $7$.

  The method of infinite descent can be combined with Vieta Formula form a new method called Vieta Jumping. In 1988, IMO introduced this type of problem for the first time, and it was considered the most difficult problem of that year. Only eleven students provided perfect solutions, and one of them was the future Fields Medalist Wu Baozhu (16 years old). In addition, two other future Fields Medalists, Terence Tao (12 years old) and Elon Lindenstrauss (17 years old), received only one out of seven points from this problem.

{% else %}
- to be published.
{% endif %}
