---
layout: post
title:  "Porblem of the Week - Sep. 21, 2023 [Middle]"
date:   2023-09-21 00:12:00 -0700
tags: potw counting
comments: "true"
inlinecomments: "true"
mathjax: "true"
publish_hint: "false"
publish_solution: "false"
publish_readmore: "false"
---
### Problem
How many positive integers have strictly increasing digits when read from left-to-right?

<!--more-->

### HINT
{% if page.publish_hint == "true" %}
{% else %}
- to be published on 9/23/23.
{% endif %}

### Solution 
{% if page.publish_solution == "true" %}
- Solution 1:

  A strictly increasing positive integer implies the following conditions:
  - Each digit is restricted to a single occurrence within the number.
  - When working with a set of unique digits, only one strictly increasing integer can be formed.
  - 0 is not allowed, otherwise it would exclude other digits leading to the integer being 0, which contradicts the positive integer requirement.

  Therefore, we simply need to calculate the total number of unique combinations that can be generated by choosing 1 digit, 2 digits, and so forth, up to 9 digits from the set of numbers ranging from 1 to 9.

  This corresponds to counting the subsets of a set containing 9 elements, which is $2^9 = 512$.

  Nonetheless, it's important to note that the empty set, which contains no chosen digits, must be excluded from consideration. So the ultimate answer should be $511$.

{% else %}
- to be published on 9/24/23.
{% endif %}

### Exercise Problem
- How many $4$-digit positive integers are multiples of $11$, and have a digit sum of $18$? One example is $1980$.
- How many even three-digit integers have the property that their digits, read left to right, are in strictly increasing order?

### Read More
{% if page.publish_readmore == "true" %}
- [Introduction to Sets](https://www.mathsisfun.com/sets/sets-introduction.html){:target="_blank"}

{% else %}
- to be published on 9/23/23.
{% endif %}
