---
layout: post
title:  "Porblem of the Week - Oct. 26, 2023 [Middle]"
date:   2023-10-26 00:12:00 -0700
tags: potw counting
comments: "true"
inlinecomments: "true"
mathjax: "true"
publish_hint: "false"
publish_solution: "false"
publish_readmore: "false"
---
### Problem

On Halloween $31$ children walked into the principal's office asking for candy. They can be classified into three types: Some always lie; some always tell the truth; and some alternately lie and tell the truth. The alternaters arbitrarily choose their firstresponse, either a lie or the truth, but each subsequent statement has the oppositetruth value from its predecessor. The principal asked everyone the same threequestions in this order. "Are you a truth-teller?" The principal gave a piece of candy to each of the $22$ children who answered yes. "Are you an alternater?" The principal gave a piece of candy to each of the $15$ children who answered yes. "Are you a liar?" The principal gave a piece of candy to each of the $9$ children whoanswered yes. How many pieces of candy in all did the principal give to the children who always tell the truth?

<!--more-->

### Hint
{% if page.publish_hint == "true" or jekyll.environment == "preview" %}

- This is a logical reasoning problem. Such problems typically don't have a common pattern, but a best practice is to list all the given conditions on paper and try to identify a starting point for solving the problem.
- The key in solving this problem is how to deal with the alternaters.

{% else %}
- to be published on 10/28/23.
{% endif %}

### Solution 
{% if page.publish_solution == "true" or jekyll.environment == "preview" %}

**Solution 1:** 

Because alternaters can behave differently, we categorize them into two groups: those who start with telling the truth and those who start with lying. 

Let's list all the conditions as a table below

$$
\begin{array} 
{|r|r|}\hline  & \text{Areyou a truth-teller?} & \text{Are you an alternater?} & \text{Are you a liar?} \\
\hline \text{truth-teller} & Y & N & N \\
\hline \text{liar} & Y & Y & N \\ 
\hline \text{alternater - truth first} & N & N & N \\
\hline \text{alternater - lying first} & Y & Y & Y \\ 
\hline  \end{array}
$$

Accordingto this table, we know there are $9$ alternaters that lying first, $6$ liars, $7$ truth-tellers, and $9$ alternaters that telling truth first. 

So, the piece of candy in all that the principal give to the children who always tell the truth is $9$.

{% else %}
- to be published on 10/29/23.

{% endif %}

### Exercise Problem

### Read More
{% if page.publish_readmore == "true" or jekyll.environment == "preview" %}

{% else %}
- to be published on 10/28/23.
{% endif %}
