---
layout: post
title:  "Porblem of the Week - Sep. 14, 2023 [Middle]"
date:   2023-09-14 00:9:00 -0700
tags: potw numbertheory
comments: "true"
inlinecomments: "true"
mathjax: "true"
publish_hint: "true"
publish_solution: "false"
publish_readmore: "true"
---
### Problem
Calculate the sum of all the positive factors of the number $12960$.

<!--more-->

### Hint
{% if page.publish_hint == "true" or jekyll.environment == "preview" %}

- The initial idea is to seek out all the factors and calculate their sum. However, it has 60 factors, making this intuitive approach impractical.
- As a general guideline, when dealing with problems involving factors, the fundamental theorem of arithmetic should always be our first consideration.

{% else %}
- to be published on 9/16/23.
{% endif %}

### Solution 
{% if page.publish_solution == "true" or jekyll.environment == "preview" %}

**Solution 1:** 

The prime factorization of $12960$ is $2^5 \cdot 3^4 \cdot 5$. Any divisor of $12960$ must adhere to the format of $2^a \cdot 3^b \cdot 5^c$, where $0 \leq a \leq 5$, $0 \leq b \leq 4$, and $0 \leq c \leq 1$. Each combination of $a$, $b$, and $c$ corresponds uniquely to a factor.

Considering the expression below,

$$(2^0+2^1+2^2+2^3+2^4+2^5)(3^0+3^1+3^2+3^3+3^4)(5^0+5^1)$$

We will obtain $60$ distinct terms in the format of $2^a \cdot 3^b \cdot 5^c$ by expanding it, each of term corresponds uniquely to a factor of $12360$.

So, the sum of factors are 

$$(1+2+2^2+2^3+2^4+2^5)(1+3+3^2+3^3+3^4)(1+5) = 63  \cdot 121 \cdot 6 = 45738$$

{% else %}
- to be published on 9/17/23.
{% endif %}

### Exercise Problem
- How many positive integer divisors of $201^9$ are perfect squares or perfect cubes (or both)?
- Let $N = 34 \cdot 34 \cdot 63 \cdot 270$. What is the ratio of the sum of the odd divisors of $N$ to the sum of the even divisors of $N$ ?

### Read More
{% if page.publish_readmore == "true" or jekyll.environment == "preview" %}

- [The Fundamental Theorem of Arithmetic](https://www.mathsisfun.com/numbers/fundamental-theorem-arithmetic.html){:target="_blank"}
- [Factors of a Number, Sum of Factors, and Product of Factors](https://byjus.com/maths/factors-of-a-number/){:target="_blank"}

{% else %}
- to be published on 9/16/23.
{% endif %}
