---
layout: post
title:  "Porblem of the Week - Oct. 5, 2023 [Middle]"
date:   2023-10-05 00:12:00 -0700
tags: potw algebra
comments: "true"
inlinecomments: "true"
mathjax: "true"
publish_hint: "false"
publish_solution: "false"
publish_readmore: "false"
---
### Problem
Given $x + y = \dfrac{5}{2}$, $x^2 + y^2 = \dfrac{13}{4}$, find the value of $x^5 + y^5$.

<!--more-->

### Hint
{% if page.publish_hint == "true" or jekyll.environment == "preview" %}

- Just like last week's POTW, avoid attempting to solve the question system. This week, our approach to solving the problem will be entirely based on algebraic identities.
- In this problem, it's crucial to note that x and y exhibit symmetry in all expressions, which is a important property.

{% else %}
- to be published on 10/07/23.
{% endif %}

### Solution 
{% if page.publish_solution == "true" or jekyll.environment == "preview" %}

**Solution 1:** 

The problem encompasses many symmetrical expressions that pertain to the two variables, $x$ and $y$. 

Firstly, let's find the value of the fundamental symmetrical expression first. Two fundamental symmetrical expressions of $x$ and $y$ are

$$
\begin{aligned}
&x + y = \dfrac{5}{2} \\
&xy = \dfrac{1}{2}((x+y)^2 - x^2 - y^2) = \dfrac{3}{2}
\end{aligned}
$$

Next, let's find the value of $x^3+y^3$

$$
x^3+y^3 = (x+y)(x^2+y^2) - xy(x+y) = \dfrac{5}{2}\cdot\dfrac{13}{4} - \dfrac{3}{2}\cdot\dfrac{5}{2} = \dfrac{35}{8}
$$

Lastly, let's  find the value of $x^5+y^5$

$$
x^5+y^5 = (x^2+y^2)(x^3+y^3) - x^2y^2(x+y) = \dfrac{13}{4}\cdot\dfrac{35}{8} - (\dfrac{3}{2})^2\cdot\dfrac{5}{2} = \dfrac{275}{32}
$$

**Solution 2:** 

Similar to solution 1, but with a different approach. We first calculate $x^4 + y^4$ by squaring $x^2+y^2$, and then utilize $(x + y)(x^4 + y^4)$ to compute $x^5 + y^5$.

{% else %}
- to be published on 10/8/23.
{% endif %}

### Exercise Problem
- Given $x + \dfrac{1}{x} = 3$, find the value of $x^3 + \dfrac{1}{x^3}$ and $x^4 + \dfrac{1}{x^4}$.
- Given $x − y = 8$, $xy = −15$, find the value of $(x + y)^2$ and $x^4 + y^4$.

### Read More
{% if page.publish_readmore == "true" or jekyll.environment == "preview" %}


- [Algebraic Identities](https://www.cuemath.com/algebra/algebraic-identities/){:target="_blank"}

{% else %}
- to be published on 10/07/23.
{% endif %}
